wait can you hear that
sounds like someone's knocking on your
door and you aren't expecting anyone
well maybe that's just your neighbor
come to ask for some garden tools again
you get up to go downstairs but then you
hear the noise of metal scratching in
the keyhole
you stop frozen in fear seconds later
you can hear the door clicking
the problem is that you live alone first
let's make sure there
really is someone in the house but you
should be very quiet in case there's a
burglar
look outside the house to search for
traces can you see anything suspicious
is there an unknown vehicle close to
your house maybe you can spot some
footsteps or broken window
was the fence gate open there might also
be hints
inside the house but be careful if
you're looking for them
make sure you can't be seen maybe
there's some lights off that are usually
on
or maybe there's some mud on the floor
that wasn't there before
listen carefully to the sounds maybe you
can hear some footsteps or movement
or the creak of a door wait did you hear
it
looks like someone bumped into your tea
table okay it looks like there really is
someone in your house
so your next step is to try to get out
of the house to be safe
if it's possible leave all together both
the front door or the back door
or even a window works if it's a bit
risky
you might want to try and escape an
injury is nothing compared with your
life
if escaping is not an option then lock
yourself somewhere
bedrooms are usually the first rooms
burglars check
because that's where most people keep
their valuables so it's better to stay
away from them
still if there's no other way bedrooms
better than nothing
lock it and pretend you're asleep but if
you can
then better hide somewhere else the
bathroom is a great choice
because it's usually not of interest to
burglars
now stay quiet the burglar probably
won't spend more than 10 minutes in your
house
if the intruder doesn't find your inside
you'll avoid confrontation
the most important thing is you staying
safe
so don't move or make any noise as soon
as you're safe and hidden
call the police immediately remember
when calling them
always give your location first in case
something happens and you're not able to
finish your conversation
at least they'll know where to go if you
can do it without being noticed
try to study the intruder as carefully
as you can
make sure to remember their height body
type the way of walking
hair color race gender age and any other
specific details you might notice
anything you can spot will be helpful if
you can look outside and see the vehicle
remember its brand color and the license
plate number
then wait again just freeze and never
leave the place you've chosen
until the burglar leaves or the
authorities arrive and help you out
but burglars don't go to any random
house
they don't want to be noticed so they
choose their target very carefully
and you can make it so they don't pick
yours
make your house an open space the
greenery makes the house harder to
observe
so burglars pick those houses that have
the most of it
make sure to trim all the shrubbery that
hides windows and doors
turn on the lights as soon as it's dark
every day of the year
illuminate everything the porches the
driveway
the yard both the front and the backyard
first it makes the surroundings more
visible
and burglars will prefer to stay away
second
it makes an impression that there's
someone home and they don't want
anyone to be there when they break in
lock
all the doors and windows people forget
to close their bathroom window and
burglars know it very well
there should never be a way in don't
leave any secret way to enter the house
in case you forget your keys if you know
about such a way
so do burglars if you have any trees too
close to your house
cut the branches so it's not possible to
climb it
and get into any of the windows keep all
of your tools and store ladders in a
locked garage
don't ever keep them lying around when
you don't use them because they can all
be used to break into your house
don't have any spare keys hidden in
random places outside the house
better give one to a neighbor you trust
when you move into a new house or
apartment
change the locks if possible make sure
that your doors look modern and reliable
old and bad doors that are easy to crack
attract burglars
don't throw away copies of documents or
unnecessary checks just like that
burglars can check your trash to learn
more about you
so shred documents into itty bitty
pieces before you throw them away
don't leave boxes from a new plasma tv
expensive phone
laptop or gold watch near your house
don't show anybody that you're well off
make sure that the house number is
clearly displayed and can be easily
noticed
this way the authorities or any other
help will be able to find your house way
faster
even if you have security cameras
installed they don't guarantee that your
house won't become a target
the cameras are helpful when finding the
robber after everything's happened
but they don't prevent any action many
robberies happen when people are away
for some holiday
so the burglars shouldn't find out
you're not going to be home for a long
time
whenever you leave make it look like
you're actually home
tell your neighbors you're leaving ask
them to keep an eye out on your house
and check it from time to time
to check if there's someone currently
living in the house burglars often check
the mail
if the mailbox is full it means there's
no one living there right now
ask your neighbor to collect the mail
for you and clean the porch from ads and
newspapers
burglars may also leave marks on your
house for example
they can put a thin strip cut from a
plastic bottle
into the doorway if it stays on the door
for one or two days
this tells the burglar that there is no
one at home so
ask your neighbor to check these things
out too ask them to park their car
occasionally in front of your house for
a while
this will give an impression that you
have visitors
still if the house stands quiet for days
it's obvious there's no one living there
currently
you can set up a timer for lights radio
or tv
so it works a couple of hours a day if
you're leaving for a long
time make arrangements so that your
grass is cut and watered
or the snow in front of your house is
shoveled it's a good idea not to post
photos from your vacation while you're
there
burglars use social media and they do
their research
it's dangerous even if you have a
private account because burglars can
collaborate with tech savvy criminals
they would break into the accounts of
rich people find out when they were
going on vacation
and inform the burglars about it but
before
someone breaks into your house they
watch it for a while
they want to know when you're home and
when you're not if you start getting
many random calls
it might be a sign that they check what
time of the day you're out
if the light sensors start
malfunctioning check immediately if
everything's all right
this doesn't always mean there are
problems with electricity
burglars may cut the wiring watch out
for doors
if you notice scratches on the lock or
it's becoming harder for you to open the
door with your key
it might mean that someone tried to
break into your house
change the locks immediately a break-in
starts with a knock on the door
if you happen to be home at the time
it's important to learn how to answer it
to scare them away
always pretend like you're not home
alone you can call out something like
can anyone answer the door please teach
your kids that they should never answer
the door or
open it to anyone unsupervised